Kithain are not the only denizens of the Dreaming that can be so infested with Banality, it becomes ingrained in their very nature. Chimera can also gain a Banality rating. Collectively, Banal chimera are referred to as either dream eaters or, less commonly, cold iron chimera by the changelings that encounter them. Dream eaters are a living contradiction, creatures of Glamour and Banality alike, with ravenous appetites and predatory cunning.

Some squeeze from the feeble dreams of Autumn People, miraculously retaining enough force of will to prevent themselves from fading into ephemera once the dream is gone. More commonly, dream eaters were the companions of changelings who became Undone, and were infected by the finality of that event. Very rarely, such chimera spring into being during the twisted Chrysalis of a Dauntain, birthed in the pain and horror of that initial rejection of the Dreaming.

Most dream eaters cannot be differentiated from normal chimera until they attack, making them especially dangerous. Though they dwell in locations where Kithain have experienced great suffering — places of Undoing, ancient battlefields, damaged freeholds, and nightmare trods are among the most common — the need for Glamour drives them to hunt almost anywhere Kithain and chimera can be found.

Dream eaters are not inherently stronger than other chimera. Though they were able to survive the initial contamination, Banality constantly corrodes their strength. As they Ravage creatures of Glamour, their Banality builds until it consumes them. Most dream eaters do not survive longer than hours or days, and most Kithain can go their entire lives without encountering even a single specimen. Rumors persist, however, of ancient dream eaters deep in the Dreaming, maintaining the balance of Banality and Glamour by emerging infrequently to gorge on Glamour-rich targets before retreating to their lairs once again.
