Regardless of what action a character takes in combat, when it happens often matters. Can a pooka dive behind a parked car before an angry sidhe fires her bow? Can a heroic troll stab one of the Dark-kin with his spear before it unleashes a monstrous attack on his friend?

The first step in this phase is for both the players and the Storyteller to determine the initiative of every character involved in the combat scene. Roll one die for each character in the scene and add the character’s initiative rating (equal to Dexterity + Wits). The higher a character’s initiative, the earlier they can act in a particular action turn. The character with the highest initiative acts first and the character with the lowest initiative acts last. If two characters have the same initiative roll, then the one with the highest initiative rating goes first. If these characters also have the same initiative rating, then they act simultaneously. A Storyteller who either has lots of her characters involved in a scene or who simply doesn’t want to keep track of different initiatives is free to make a single initiative roll for all of her characters. Storytellers and players who wish to further emphasize characters’ abilities and to downplay random chance can instead calculate initiative as 6 + Dexterity + Wits for all characters.

During this phase, everyone must also state what their character is doing in this turn, going from the player with the lowest initiative to the player with the highest. This process allows players with higher initiatives to plan their characters’ actions based on what slower characters are going to do. These declarations of intent can include stating that your character delays her action to see what someone else does. Also, if your character is planning on performing multiple actions in this action turn, you must declare this now. You are free to choose any action that can be performed in one turn — using a cantrip, picking a pocket, charging at someone and hacking at them with your broadsword or scrambling into a car and driving away at high speed. You can also yield your action and wait to see what everyone else does first. Doing this allows characters with lower initiative scores to act first. Your character can still act at the end of the turn. If everyone yields their action, then the turn passes without anything happening.

## Initiative Complications

Several exceptions can occur to the order of initiative. If you delay your character’s action, you can have her act at any point later in the turn. If she acts on the same initiative number as another character, the character with the highest initiative rating goes first. You can also abort your character’s planned action and perform a defensive action as long as you have at least one action remaining in the turn (see Aborting Actions). Finally, any additional actions gained through cantrips or splitting dice pools occur at the end of the turn. Once again, these end of turn actions occur in the order of the characters’ initiative rating.