As [[Banality]] closes in on the remaining locations touched by the [[Dreaming]] in the mortal world, locations survive that still burn bright with [[Glamour]]. While enchanted forests and many [[Glades]] have been destroyed, and the massive holdings of fae lords and nobles have dwindled away to nothing but memory, some places have survived. These gathering places, called [[Freeholds]], have retained enough of their original [[Glamour]] to create a safe space in the Autumn world. Within a [[Freeholds|freehold’s]] walls, [[Kithain]] can gather safe from [[Banality’s]] touch while still keeping one foot in the mortal world.
[[Freeholds]] have a mundane identity and exist within the physical world, though many are shielded from prying eyes by faerie [[Cantrips]] and enchantments. A broken-down tavern might discourage the idle group of drunk tourists out for a night on the town, while inside an entire changeling household feasts in celebration. The mortal seeming of the freehold may not appear as glamorous and impressive as its fae counterpart, but to enchanted or changeling eyes, it is a castle set in the middle of an urban sprawl. Still, much like how a changeling’s fae mien may influence their mortal seeming, a freehold’s appearance in the [[Dreaming]] may influence how the location appears in the mortal world. A stylish townhouse may appear to bear a paint job that matches the colors of the noble house whose coat of arms flies over the freehold’s battlements, while a forbidding lord’s occult lair may have strange breezes and the chatter of unearthly voices in the mortal world as well.
One of the oddest problems of a freehold is the issue of being bigger on the inside, which happens when the freehold on the fae side is much larger than its mortal side’s interiors. It often takes time for a new fledgling to understand the “physics” of a freehold, and the connection between its Autumn world space and its corresponding pocket in the [[Dreaming]].
The [[Glamour]] provided by freeholds allows [[Kithain]] to survive in the Autumn world. For that reason, [[Freeholds]] are the cornerstone of [[Kithain]] society, as those that control these important places of power become themselves important. Noble houses build their structures around maintaining their [[Freeholds]] and guard them zealously, while commoners do the same for their gathering places.
More than acting as simply gathering places, [[Freeholds]] can become the only homes for many [[Kithain]] who must abandon their mortal lives when they go through their [[Chrysalis]]. Older changelings seeking to stave off old age and [[Banality’s]] effects spend more and more time inside the freehold, partaking of its font of [[Glamour]]. Because [[Freeholds]] are so important, [[Kithain]] become ferociously protective of them. Anyone challenging the ownership of a freehold or found endangering it will find themselves on the receiving end of a vicious dispute. Protection of [[Freeholds]] in danger of destruction is one of changeling society’s highest-held accords.
The heart of a freehold, much like the sacred stone at the heart of a glade, is the balefire, or the Ignis Vesta, the freehold’s balefire. As long as the balefire continues burning, the freehold remains in existence and produces [[Glamour]] for its inhabitants. But should the balefire ever go out, the freehold might crumble under the force of [[Banality]]. During the [[Shattering]], many [[Freeholds]] were left abandoned by the fleeing nobles with their balefires yet lit. These embers, left untended, may have gone out, but many remain smoldering, waiting to be rediscovered. In North America, the source of all balefires is the Great Balefire that burns in the stronghold of High King David at [[Tara-Nar]].
It is possible to create more [[Freeholds]]. The creator of the freehold must bring balefire from another freehold and offer up their own [[Glamour]] as a permanent sacrifice to create the space. Most changelings instead seek to find abandoned [[Freeholds]] in the hope that they can create new homes for themselves.
When a changeling does find a freehold, she must swear an oath and invest [[Glamour]] into the site to reawaken and claim it. Once she does so, no one else may claim it until the guardian dies or gives it away. The guardian of the freehold receives [[Glamour]] from that freehold and may also grant permission to others to receive the freehold’s [[Glamour]]. Should any changeling attempt to steal from the freehold’s [[Glamour]] supply, a process called Reaving, the freehold may be damaged or even destroyed. All changelings of a freehold are dedicated to its upkeep and defense.
[[Freeholds]] fall into several different categories, which are discussed in Chapter Seven.
