The Shadow Court is not a true Court in the sense of the Seelie and Unseelie Courts. It was founded during the Interregnum by disgruntled members of the Unseelie Court as a way to mock the Seelie Court’s refusal to cede rulership during the winter and autumn months. Each year during Samhain, the Shadow Court assembled to rule for one night of revelry. It bestowed honorary titles on everyone who attended the celebration. Pranks were played, sometimes in jest and at other times scathing, at the expense of those in power. Tournaments were held, and feasts were provided. A merry time was had by all while allowing the disenfranchised a chance to air grievances and have an outlet for their frustrations.

The Shadow Court’s tradition of Samhain revelry — and mockery — continued even past the Resurgence. Since the Evanescence, however, the Shadow Court has taken on a new purpose. As Glamour withdrew from the world and freeholds collapsed, the leadership of both courts did nothing. Changelings without the luxury of a freehold or access to reliable Dreamers couldn’t scrape together enough Glamour to keep from being Undone, and still those with the most resources offered no relief. When changelings, facing the icy winds of Banality with no protection, demanded answers from their superiors, they were met with only silence.

Commoners and landless nobles banded together under the banner of the Shadow Court to make their voices heard. Rank and file members don’t know if the inaction from the highest-ranking Kithain is due to malice or if — insulated in their freeholds with a limitless supply of Glamour — they’re completely out of touch with the hardships faced by the average changeling. Frankly, those who count themselves among the Shadow Court don’t care. Their only goal is to force a response from those capable of alleviating some of the suffering. They take inspiration for their tactics from, and inspire in turn, the protests of similar groups in human society — the Occupy movement, the Arab Spring, and Black Lives Matter to name a few. Whenever the Shadow Court discovers a high-ranking noble will make a public appearance, they gather in numbers impossible to ignore to disrupt the proceedings. The aim is to show the elites of Kithain society that they exist and that they will not submit to their circumstances quietly.

The Shadow Court’s famous Samhain celebrations continue every year. They have taken on a Mardi-Gras-like quality. All who attend come costumed as someone of importance. This allows the assembled changelings one night of the year when they can indulge in their fantasies and forget their troubles, if only briefly. Shadow Court organizers use the night to plan their strategy for the coming year, and to check on everyone in their community so they can make sure whatever little aid they receive gets to those who need it most. Rumors are whispered by some who refuse to join the Shadow Court that other, more sinister proceedings happen each Samhain. They say the true masters of darkness come out that night, shrouded by the safety of the Mists, to direct the Shadow Court to its original purpose — the downfall of Kithain society. The leaders of the Shadow Court dismiss these allegations as obvious propaganda from the leaders of the Seelie and Unseelie Courts, who are terrified they might be forced to relinquish a small portion of their amassed Glamour.


> [!example] The Black Court
> The rumors about the Shadow Court are not far from the truth. While it wasn’t founded by the Thallain, it was soon taken over by them. The Thallain were invited to join by the Shadow Court’s Unseelie founders who thought the Thallain were so few and so mindless they would make useful, if crude, tools. The Thallain, while rare at the time, were not as stupid as the court’s founders thought. They quickly recognized the Shadow Court’s potential to destabilize the Kithain. They usurped the original founders but made sure to keep their existence hidden from the rest of the Shadow Court. They adopted the name of the Black Court in honor of their absent Fomorian masters. Today they direct Thallain activity across the world while fracturing Kithain society from their place atop the Shadow Court.