Dauntain are predators birthed of trauma and torment, and their Chrysalises are always agonizing. Each Dauntain, no matter his kith, bears the indelible mark of his Doom. This mark, tied intimately to their Glamour, manifests as a brand somewhere on the body of the Dauntain, a symbol from an ancient language — perhaps Arcadian, perhaps older — that identifies them by their sins.

The Dreaming does not let go of changelings marked as Dauntain easily. Dauntain bear their Brands through each turn of the mortal coil, being born anew with the sins of their ancient lives. Every Dauntain knows he is incomplete, that his soul is damaged and broken beyond repair, but this does not stop him from trying to fix himself. Over the many centuries, Dauntain have developed methods to appease the pain and mitigate the madness, and some still hope to learn the secrets of the Dreaming that will allow them to finally heal their souls and shed their Brands.

## Brand of the Cadaver
Illness and disease even infect the Dreaming, and the Dreaming can pass it to the fae. Some fae even go looking for these plague realms deliberately, seeking to cause pandemics in order to winnow out the weak from their society. Typhoids are plague carriers, infected with a horrible wasting sickness that each day hardens and sheds half their temporary Glamour into gangrenous dross. Any creature of the Dreaming that comes into contact with this dross becomes infected with the contagion, and suffers the same symptoms.

## Brand of the Forsaken
Not every fae that fled to Arcadia made it through Silver’s Gate. Some were criminals or prisoners of war, deliberately abandoned to a tormented half-life in the hostile Dreaming. Such fae lingered, unable to die and unable to be reborn. Only when the trods reopened could they escape, still bearing the scars of their entrapment. Lost suffer horrific nightmares, and may not regain Glamour from any Dreamer who does not likewise suffer nightmares.

## Brand of the Iconoclast
Despair is the bane of hope. It calcifies vulnerable souls and sits like a cancer, stealing good dreams and leaving behind only desolate nightmares. Sometimes, that despair transmutes to rage and hate. Nihilists are driven by a deep desire to end everything — freeholds, the Kithain, even the Dreaming itself. Each day they do not destroy something of the Dreaming, whether it be a simple Treasure or the entire population of a freehold, they become obsessed with a target, suffering dice penalties equal to their permanent Glamour rating to any action not directly related to their mission.

## Brand of the Lich
Souls that have trucked with the darkest of faerie powers bear a foul mark indicating their willing embrace of Nightmares in the pursuit of power. They carry the burden of deals made with the devil and creation of the most destructive dreams. Warlocks are tied to phylacteries that manifest during their Chrysalises. Should the phylactery fall into another’s hands, the Dauntain is enslaved to the will of that being, necessitating a Willpower roll with the Warlock’s Glamour rating in minimum required successes to resist any command, even self-destructive ones, their new master gives them.

## Brand of the Quisling
Apostates are marked as oath breakers and traitors. No matter how slick their stories or charismatic their personalities, the Dreaming knows their wickedness and rejects them for it. Chimera attack them instinctively, and they cannot find sanctuary anywhere the Dreaming touches. They cannot recover Glamour through any method save Ravaging, and even that is only half as effective as normal, unless the Ravaging roll successes exceed the Apostate’s Glamour rating.

## Brand of the Unholy
Ancient magic scars some souls. A hundred-year sleep, a spell that traps the victim in a tree or animal shape, an enchantment that forces one to perform impossible tasks, or a hex that removes that which the victim most treasures: all of these can affect changelings as well as mortals. The Cursed may have been another’s victim, or may have violated a sacred space, but the dire curse they suffered as a result lingers on. Whenever they are confronted with an item or event associated with their individual curse, their Glamour turns against them. Until they leave the trigger’s presence, the Cursed’s Glamour rating is subtracted from all their dice pools.