## I Chih

Each school of elemental alchemy is divided into five levels, ascending in scope from the most basic of understanding to grand alterations to the fabric of the world. Each of these tiers of knowledge and ability are referred to as I Chih — “righteous judgements.” These powers began as holy writ, given to the Shinma to do the work of Heaven and respond to the prayers of mortals. Now, cut off from Heaven, these powers are seemingly theirs to do with as they please. While I Chih are described in terms of specific effects and given examples, there is no limit to the effects they are capable of creating, save progression in elemental understanding, the imagination of the Shinma employing this magic, and, of course, Storyteller approval.

I Chih are all-encompassing understandings of the 10,000 Things, and as such, the examples provided following a description of each I Chih are just that — simple examples of the manifold wonders that the Hsien can, with study and focus, call forth.

## The Prodigal Tongue
The first lesson elemental alchemy teaches is to converse with the spirits of the world in the language of the elements they represent. It is the first duty and privilege reclaimed by Hsien as they are endlessly reborn. Using this power, the Shinma speak with rocks, rivers, animals, and even people whose languages they cannot naturally speak (though the speech is always uncanny and clearly magical in origin, the audience understands perfectly).

**Commune With Elements:** The Hsien may speak directly to the elements, striking up conversations with pools of water, stones, or trees. The spirits of most things are quiet and sluggish creatures, and must be roused — this is, in part, the action of the spent Yugen. Most will have limited perceptions of the world around them — a stone cannot see, for example, though a pool of water may know what has been reflected in its surface. Use of Magnitude deepens and broadens the connection, making reliable information much more likely to emerge from the conversation.

**Read Elemental Soul:** By calling to the elements composing a soul, the Hsien may link herself, but only for a moment, to that soul, and discern its nature. She may, for example, determine if the soul is a just one by examining her metal soul, and thus possibly learn if the person associated with it is lying.

**Speak with Jimu-Tenno:** The Hsien are spirits themselves, albeit cut off from what they used to be. Still, they retain the ability to speak to their kin, the elemental spirits of the Yang world who sometimes find their way into the Middle Kingdom.

**Speak to Mortals:** The Hsien were charged with oversight of the natural world — however, humans too have a role in the natural world, one that seemingly grows with each passing day (though frequently not to the natural world’s benefit). Humans are made of the same elemental matter and bear the same elemental souls that beasts, plants, and stones do, and as a result Hsien may, through the use of alchemy, address any human and be understood. Addressing mortals is always a Yang effect, and addressing the dead is always a Yin effect. This I Chih functions regardless of the element used to empower it, unless the subject’s relevant elemental soul has been seriously damaged or destroyed (in which case, not understanding the Hsien is the least of her worries).

## Inflame the Elements; Dampen the Elements
The Shinma were once given command over the spirits of the Middle Kingdom and the Yang world, the better to order them according to Heaven’s vision. Now cast out, that authority yet remains, and even young Shinma can often coax the elements into obeying, if only a little, inflaming or dampening the elemental Chi within them — or, indeed, within herself.

**Diminish/Nurture Elemental Soul:** As she may command elementals, a Hsien may command the elemental energy that animates souls, inflaming or dampening the passions and behaviors associated with that element. Yin is used to diminish behaviors, Yang to amplify them.

**Increase/Decrease Elemental Attributes:** Similarly, the Hsien may use their authority over the elements to alter Attributes associated with those elements, increasing or decreasing them at a rate of 1 dot per two dice allocated to Degree — three, to lower an Attribute from one to zero. Again, Yin is used to diminish, Yang to amplify.

## Raiment of the Elements
As her understanding grows, the Hsien learns to control her own elemental form, altering her body and learning how little divides her form from the world around her. This I Chih cannot target other individuals — all effects must target the Hsien or an inanimate object. In addition, as her understanding of the elements deepens, her capacity and authority within the Celestial Bureaucracy develops. With the third I Chih in an Alchemy, the Hsien may now exercise power over the elemental spirits of the Middle Kingdom.

**Exorcise Elemental Spirit:** The Hsien may disperse — but not destroy — an elemental spirit. This requires a die allocated to Degree for every 10 points of Chi the spirit possesses. If the spirit has crossed the Gauntlet and manifested, the sorcery becomes much more difficult, requiring one die per five points of Chi. This is always a Yin effect.

**Summon Elemental Spirit:** The Hsien summons a spirit of the elements from across the Gauntlet, requiring a die allocated to Degree for every 10 points of Chi the spirit possesses plus one per level of the Gauntlet rating of the current location. Spirits do not enjoy being idly called, and typically require remuneration before obeying the Hsien’s dictates. This is always a Yang effect.

**Summon the Dragon Boat:** Able to be used only in dragon nests, those places where the spiritual energy of the world penetrates into the material realm of the Middle Kingdom, this power allows the Shinma to travel rapidly between them — one die allocated to Degree for every 100 miles of distance, though only between dragon nests that are connected by dragon lines. This requires a small jade figurine of the eponymous dragon boat. The Hsien summons an elemental from across the Gauntlet, and strikes a bargain similar to that needed when Summoning Elemental Spirits. A botch on this roll causes the jade figurine to shatter and befouls the dragon nest — it can be cleansed, but it requires a day’s worth of rituals, and those who maintain the dragon nest will not be best pleased.

**The Enfolded Object:** The Hsien subsumes a small amount of an element within herself, to a maximum of roughly double her mass. The object’s spirit merges with the Hsien’s, and so it cannot be discovered. Cohort effects must be used to hide an object consisting of more than one element, such as liquid held in a metal container (water and metal) or a burning torch (wood and fire).

**Paths of the Elements:** The Hsien merges with an element, becoming one with it and thus able to travel freely within it, provided she governs the effect with Domain. Continuance allows the changeling to stay in the substance he has merged with — if he does not leave before the end of the effect, the element expels him violently, and he suffers two health levels of aggravated damage. All Perception rolls made to discern the world outside the element are made at +2 difficulty, and no I Chih may be cast from within the substance, for the Hsien’s Chi is still active. Any items besides clothing must be enfolded prior to travel, or they will not pass through the element.

**Elemental Form/Fist:** By incorporating the element into herself, the Hsien is able to greater resist its depredations, as well as augment her own fighting capabilities. Dice allocated to Degree must be split between these two, or dedicated entirely on one of them. Combinations may be used — wood Form with fire Fist, for example — so long as it feeds the progressive cycle. This requires a Cohort effect.

- **Wood** — The character may add soak dice against wooden attacks, reduce the difficulty of resisting venom or poison, or induce thick thorns to sprout from her hands and feet, allowing her to do lethal damage barehanded.
- **Fire** — The character may add soak dice against flame, though it still does aggravated damage. Additionally, she may cause flames to erupt wherever she strikes, engulfing the foe in flame. Dice allocated during the original I Chih must be split between the intensity and the size of the flame desired.
- **Earth** — The character may add soak dice against stone or earthen attacks, or reduce difficulties associated with inclement weather conditions. She may also harden her fists and feet preternaturally, allowing her to punch through or into dangerous substances without suffering harm and adding to her bashing damage dice pool, one damage for each die allocated.
- **Metal** — The character adds dice to soak any attack made with metal, turning aside blades with bare flesh — with enough power, she may even become literally bulletproof. Her hands and feet, finely-honed instruments hard as steel, are able to precisely target weaknesses in armor and penetrate it, removing the enemy’s soak dice from armor on a one-for-one basis.
- **Water** — The character can no longer drown, and may slip out of bindings or grapples with ease, lowering difficulty of such rolls by one per die allocated. Her fists push the very essence of water into her foes, causing them to drown even in the driest of deserts. Victims must make a Stamina + Athletics roll against a difficulty equal to the Hsien’s Yin + dice allocated to the effect in order to cough up the water, or they will pass out according to the rules included in the Suffocation & Drowning section (p. 293).

## Awaken the Elements
No longer must the Shinma entreat elementals to do her bidding, or work the stuff of the elements with her bare hands — now she commands the elements themselves, controlling them in fine and marvelous detail with nothing more than her will alone. In addition, with her greater understanding of Wu Tan she may now employ Raiment of the Elements against others.

**Awaken True Jade:** By linking her Chi for but a moment with the latent Chi that sleeps within jade, the Hsien may awaken that jade and create true jade, a mystical and powerful substance much in demand among the Shinma. Awakening jade to a particular kind of Chi requires either a Yin or Yang roll, respectively. To balance the jade’s Chi, two rolls, one of each, are necessary. Regardless of the aspect, every two dice allocated to Degree awakens a point of Chi in the jade.

**Elemental Hand:** The Hsien is able to move and shape the elements themselves, appropriating them with a form of martial telekinesis. Many actions are possible with this power, such as animating trees or shaping a stone into a rude caricature of a person, but perhaps the simplest technique in this library is to simply attack another with the element in question. The exact form of the attack may vary — high-pressure sprays of water, great gouts of flame, stones torn from the ground itself — but mechanically, all are represented by the I Chih roll, with successes allocated to Degree translating to dice of damage.

**Summon Element:** Such is the Hsien’s understanding of the elements that she can create them ex nihilo, or at least seem to — all things are in balance, and the element must come from somewhere. The Hsien cannot control from where, of course, but she can control its expression.

## Throne of Jade
The Hsien unites her understanding of the elements, representing the great cycle. She may transmute elements freely, exchange or alter properties at will — even between different elements, with a Cohort effect. Her mastery evident, the spirits of Heaven’s hierarchy recognize her authority, or at least, the foolishness of angering her — should they disobey, she may bind them to the task.

**Authority:** Spirits may be bound to obey the changeling’s dictates. The command must be simple enough to be communicated in a single sentence, and cannot require more than one lunar month of service from the spirit in question. In addition, the Hsien may only levy such a command once per year — any more, and the spirit has grounds to appeal the command to the Celestial Bureaucracy, who are, to put it mildly, unlikely to be pleased by the Hsien’s actions. The binding requires a point of Yugen in addition to the one used to invoke this I Chih, and a number of dice allocated to Degree equal to the spirit’s Chi divided by 10, rounding down.

**Transmutation:** Qualities may be exchanged between expressions of a single element. To render a match’s flame as intense as a torch, for example, might require one die allocated to Degree, while augmenting it until it burns as hot as an acetylene blowtorch would require significantly more. With cohort effects, properties may be exchanged between expressions of different elements — creating a fire, for example, that is as hard as diamond. Frozen in a single form, it nonetheless burns with a terrific heat. A true master of the elements may even transform an expression of one element into an expression of another — turning wood into gold, or water into flame. To attempt this most rigorous of magics, however, the Hsien must possess both Alchemies at the fifth level.

