Sometimes players will want to create characters that really won’t get along, like a group that contains both a haughty sidhe royalist and an angry common revolutionary. This can seem to present the Storyteller with an insurmountable problem in terms of finding reasons to keep the group together, but it’s not necessarily a major issue provided the players involved are willing to work with each other (even if their characters are at odds).

For one thing, you can find countless fictional examples of groups containing two or more members who can’t stand each other at first, but wind up becoming close companions after shared hardship and adventures. Suggesting this model to the players can actually be the beginning of a really amazing roleplaying journey, as the players work to bring their characters closer together over time even though their characters can’t possibly imagine such an outcome when they first meet.

Another thing to remember about clashing characters is that some tension and discord in the group can be a really fun element to roleplay, but only so long as it is kept in character. Players whose characters clash must take care to always keep such conflicts in game, and not take it personally. Provided they can do that, having bickering characters or characters who are seriously at odds only adds to the drama of the adventure and can lead to some very engaging roleplaying during the chronicle.

Ultimately, players of clashing characters should bear in mind that unless the group has specifically agreed to allow intense player vs. player actions, their disagreements should ultimately not break up the character group, but be used more for color and roleplaying tension. After all, while discord can be good for drama, actually derailing the game due to excessive conflict between characters can leave the rest of the group feeling a bit frustrated out of game.

> [!example] The Character Sheet Code
> For Storytellers, a character sheet is basically a coded message, telling her what kinds of situations a player wants to encounter. A character with high Physical Attributes and a lot of fighting prowess wants to be tested in battle, a character with excellent Knowledge ratings is just begging to be served up some mysteries, and so on. For that matter, seeing what is absent from a character sheet can serve just as well, showing what sorts of challenges a character will be hard-pressed to overcome. If a Storyteller ever needs a quick idea for some possible scenes, there are worse ways than to simply look over the group’s character sheets and think about how to tie together their various strengths and weaknesses.
