A web of magical paths crosses both the mundane world and all points in the [[Dreaming]]. These pathways have existed for centuries, and though they have degraded and some branches have become lost over time, the system of [[Trods]] that branch throughout known (and unknown) space are an important transportation system for changelings everywhere. During the [[Shattering]], many of the [[Trods]] that led to locations in the [[Dreaming]], as well as the primary ways that led to [[Arcadia]], slammed shut. The Interregnum saw more and more of these gates fade away, until few [[Trods]] functioned. With the return of the [[sidhe]] during the [[Resurgence]], and with the constant mini-explosions of [[Glamour]] driving more doorways open, changelings have taken to the [[Trods]] to see where they might lead. So far, none of them have led back to [[Arcadia]]. Many, though, have led seekers into deeper parts of the [[Dreaming]], and into adventures and dangers they could never have imagined.
[[Trods]] allow changelings to travel from place to place without the fear of [[Banality]]. They may use their [[Arts]] freely without expending [[Glamour]] and can travel from one [[Freeholds|freehold]] to another without stepping into the mortal world. Yet, after 600 years of erosion and disrepair, many [[Trods]] no longer go where they used to, and many dead end in parts of the [[Dreaming]]. [[Trods]] also don’t always take a direct route to their destination and can lead changeling travelers on long journeys before they emerge at their intended location. Some may arrive quickly and simply, but others may emerge with tales of long adventures and harrowing escapes in places unknown. Time is not reliable while traveling by trod, and some trips may stretch out time within the trod, or else make an extended trip through the [[Dreaming]] last only the blink of an eye in the mortal world.
Along the way, changelings may discover new and as-yet-undiscovered parts of the [[Dreaming]], the realm from which they were born. It certainly isn’t a tame place, but no changeling can escape stepping out of the mortal realm and into its borders for long. Yet as long as travelers follow the Silver Path, the silvery lifeline that connects one end of the [[Trods|trod]] to the other, [[Kithain]] can always find their way home. Of course, predators within the [[Dreaming]] know this, and often devise traps and obstacles along the paths that a changeling must face if they wish to escape unscathed. And though they may leave, no one who enters the [[Dreaming]] truly comes back unchanged. The adventure might be worth it, though.