# Glamour

Glamour is the shining opposite of Banality, the spark of hope that burns bright against the oncoming Endless Night. Glamour is the very stuff of creative life and hope, shining wherever artists work at their passion and mortals battle away the doldrums to dream. Glamour is the basic building block of all fae reality. It powers the Dreaming, makes up every particle of chimerical creatures and creations, and powers all faerie magic.

Glamour gives changelings the ability to call up whirlwinds or whisper to trees, create magical flying ships, or allow mortals to see or touch the Dreaming by infusing them with just a touch of power. Glamour is also the basic energy that keeps changelings from losing their fae mien and power. Glamour fuels their cantrips (spells) and without a constant stream of Glamour, a changeling forgets her connection to the Dreaming and fades back into her mortal seeming. Though it is vital, the force of Banality in the world has made Glamour scarce. Changelings spend their time finding new sources of Glamour by cultivating mortals that produce it or discovering new locations where natural Glamour flourishes. These locations become a precious resource that must be protected, or the Kithain risk the world becoming that much colder.

Glamour can’t be seen in any physical form in its rawest state, as it is a type of energy. Mortals cannot sense Glamour or anything created by it that doesn’t have a physical, mortal world counterpart. Because of their connection to the Dreaming, changelings can sense the presence of Glamour. All changelings have at least a little of the faerie sight, called kenning, which allows them to see through mortal seemings to the fae mien underneath, and also perceive things infused with Glamour.

Glamour can also be collected and pressed into a physical form by changelings to either infuse power into an object, or else to create dross, bits of material that store Glamour for use or consumption at a later time. Many a changeling has been saved from the cold press of Banality by a timely bit of Glamour, as they cling to its warm spark in the oncoming darkness.

## ## The Undoing

The force of Banality in the mortal world is so strong that, if a changeling is not careful, it can separate a fae from his mortal self. As a changeling is worn down by Banality, he starts to forget his connection to the Dreaming. Memories of his fae selves disappear and a fae may fall into the Undoing, a time when a changeling forgets his time as a fae and instead is subsumed into his mortal seeming altogether. Should the process not be halted or at least slowed, the changeling loses touch with his fae half entirely. What is left behind is the hollow mortal half, living his life alone in the dull, Banal world.

This process doesn’t happen all at once. Changelings weather the forces of Banality every day, buffered from its harshest effects by their mortal seemings. By taking that bit of Banality into their lives, changelings can build up a tolerance and use the mortal half to shelter them from the worst that the cold Autumn world has to offer. A changeling’s fae mien may dig down deep below her mortal shell to endure the most trying parts of her everyday life, from paying bills to dealing with tax officials. Prolonged contact with Banal influences can wear down even the toughest changeling and send her in a slow spiral towards the Undoing.

Fae have been using the trick of hiding behind mortal seemings for as long as memory stands. Faeries would wear mortal disguises to walk among humanity, even going so far as to take the appearance of mortals to hide from those that might enslave them or destroy them with cold iron. This tactic was later used when the Shattering threatened to crush the fae left behind when the gates to Arcadia swung shut. Those who stayed in the mortal world used the trick of taking mortal form to create the Changeling Way Ritual that allowed the fae to be reborn in mortal bodies, protected (at least in part) from the Banal world.

This transformation by the fae into changelings didn’t come without a cost. Changelings lose the memory of their fae selves when utterly subsumed into their mortal seemings. It’s for this reason that, until Chrysalis, a mortal does not remember her fae self fully. It’s possible that some fae souls never awaken from their slumber, their mortal seemings so buried in Banality that they cannot be reached by the Dreaming. They remain, tragically, lost to Banality’s Undoing and the Mists.