Once all the characters have determined if their attacks hit or missed, the next step is to see how much damage the characters inflicted or suffered. The resolution of damage should be more than the Storyteller or a player saying that their character inflicted three health levels of lethal damage on their foe. There should also be an element of storytelling and roleplaying, “Your arrow pierced the hellsteed’s leg, causing it to stumble and utter a hideous shriek” or “the angry troll punches you with a huge, calloused fist; even through your chainmail hauberk, you can feel your ribs crack.” Remembering to combine both story and mechanics makes the game a lot more exciting for everyone.

Rolling damage is relatively simple. Every weapon, from a fist to an assault rifle, has a base damage. The attacker rolls this base damage + one additional die for every success after the first on a character’s attack roll. If a character fires a bow and the player rolls four successes on her attack roll, she adds three dice to the damage roll. It’s also important to know if a weapon does bashing, lethal or (on rare occasions) aggravated damage. Every weapon’s base damage and damage type, as well as its range (for ranged weapons) are included on the Close Combat Weapons chart (see p. 286) and the Ranged Combat Weapons chart (see p. 287). Damage rolls are always made at a difficulty of 6, and each success on this roll causes one health level of the appropriate type of damage. Three successes on a damage roll for a punch does three health levels of bashing damage, while two success rolls on a damage roll with a broadsword does two health levels of lethal damage. Damage rolls cannot be botched; the only options are success or failure.

## Soaking Damage

Characters can sometimes shrug off an attack. To do this, they soak the damage. Without wearing armor, changelings, like ordinary mortals, can only soak bashing damage and lethal damage that is chimerical. Wearing armor allows the wearer to also soak aggravated and non-chimerical lethal damage, using the armor’s rating as her total soak pool. Regardless of the type of damage, soak rolls all involve the defender rolling his soak pool. For bashing damage and chimerical lethal damage, the soak pool is Stamina + the rating of any armor he is wearing. For non-chimerical lethal damage and all aggravated damage, the soak pool is only the armor’s rating. Like rolling damage, when rolling soak, the difficulty is always 6 and the roll cannot botch.

Characters roll soak only after an attack hits and has done damage. At this point, the character rolls his soak pool. Each success subtracts one health level of damage. Soak rolls are reflexive rolls and do not require actions.

**Example:** A malicious goblin punches Roberta the Troll and inflicts three health levels of bashing damage. Before applying that damage, Roberta’s player rolls a number of dice equal to her Stamina (4) and the armor rating of the biker jacket she is wearing (1), for a total of five dice. She obtains two successes. Instead of suffering three health levels of damage, Roberta only suffers one and is unimpaired as she prepares to stab the goblin with her pocket knife. If the goblin had attacked her with a physical hatchet instead, then Roberta would only have rolled one die on her soak roll, based on her biker jacket’s armor rating.

## Armor and Shields

Armor is worn to protect the wearer from damage and can be anything from a ratty leather jacket to shining sidhe plate armor. Regardless of how durable or elegant it is, all armor adds dice to characters’ soak rolls. However, all but the lightest armor is somewhat cumbersome and inflicts penalties to the wearer’s Dexterity-based dice pools. Also, armor isn’t designed to be worn all or most of the time. No one can sleep in armor, it’s not comfortable to eat a meal or walk around town in it, and most armor is sufficiently obvious that people will react. Armor also takes at least several minutes to put on or take off.

**Shields:** Shields are large items the wielder interposes between attacks and his body. Shields increase the difficulty of attacking the wielder in close combat by +1 or +2, depending upon the size of the shield — the attacker needs to work to avoid hitting the shield rather than his target. The wielder can also use a shield to parry both close combat and ranged attacks. Rolls to use a shield to parry ranged attacks with arrows or thrown weapons are made versus difficulty 6 (rather than the normal difficulty 8 for parrying ranged attacks). In addition, if the wielder makes a successful parry roll (also versus difficulty 6), she can use the shield’s armor (see Shields, p. 285) against attacks by firearms. Using a shield to parry or provide armor against an attack requires a successful parry maneuver, but when used to provide armor against a firearms attack, the parry roll isn’t resisted — the character just attempts to place the shield between her and the bullets.

The downside to shields is much like that of armor: They are large, obvious, and heavy. Even more than armor, people on the street are going to look at you very oddly if you walk around with a large shield on your arm. For more on both armor and shields, see the Armor chart and Shields chart, under Combat System Charts (p. 285).

Swashbuckling Kithain can also use cloaks or long coats as shields. The changeling cannot be wearing this garment to use it as a shield and must instead hold it in one hand and parry with it. Using a cloak or long coat in this fashion gives the wielder all of the benefits of a shield. However, a blow or two with a weapon will ruin this garment.

> [!example] Special Results: Blinded, Knocked Down, Immobilized or Stunned
> 
> Characters in combat are normally assumed to be able to see and move with relative freedom. If this is not true, then they suffer specific penalties. Characters can use various combat maneuvers to produce such states in their opponents.
> 
> **Blinded:** If a character is completely blind or fighting in complete or almost complete darkness, the she cannot perform any ranged attacks or defensive maneuvers, and the difficulty of all of her other physical actions increase by +2.
> 
> **Knocked Down:** If an attack or other circumstance causes a character to fall down, he must take one action to scramble back to his feet. If for some reason he can’t, he’s counted as partially immobilized until he regains his feet.
> 
> **Immobilized:** If a character is restrained, paralyzed, or otherwise unable to move freely, any character who attacks him reduces her difficulty by –2 if the target is still able to move a little bit. If the target cannot move at all, then all attacks automatically hit.
> 
> **Stunned:** If — after the soak roll — a character suffers a number of health levels of damage from a single attack that equals or exceeds her Stamina, she’s stunned until the end of the following turn. Stunned characters can’t perform any actions except attempting to shake off the effects of the blow. Attack rolls against stunned characters reduce their difficulty by 2.
