## Kingdom of Cymru (Wales)

A land of remarkable beauty, the mountains and valleys of Cymru still bear much of their pristine quality. Inevitably, the world of commerce and technology continues to make inroads, claiming parts of the land for its narrow-sighted focus on progress. Six principalities, each divided into cantrevs (provinces), make up the kingdom: Clwyd, Gwynedd, Dyfed, Gwent, Powys, and Glamorgan. The last two, sadly, have succumbed to the pull of [[Banality]]: Powys, due to the lack of fae, and Glamorgan, due to the nature of its present ruler. The fae of Cymru, who call themselves “Tylwyth Teg,” dream of finding someone strong enough to restore the lost principalities to the world of the fae.

## Principality of Clwyd
Also called The Land of Two Valleys, the Principality of Clwyd occupies most of the northeastern part of Cymru. It shares a border with [[Albion]]’s Kingdom of Smoke. Countess Gwrly of the Birds, a [[Seelie]] [[Sidhe]] of House [[Liam]], rules Cantrev Gwrly from her home in Caer Aderyn, Keep of the Birds. Comprising most of Clwyd, the cantrev’s leadership is a responsibility given to her by Dyfed’s Prince Dylan in order to keep her from obsessing over a personal grudge she has with her former friend, Angharad ferch Mynydd, harking back to their time in [[Arcadia]]. Angharad rules the smaller Cantrev Brenig, in western Clwyd.

## Principality of Gwynedd
The Land of Mountains and Meadows, the Principality of Gwynedd consists of most of northwestern Cymru. Known for its striking scenery, Gwynedd claims not only the snow-covered Snowdonia Range, but also the Cambrian Mountains to the south. It contains many popular coastal towns, such as Bangor and Conwy, as well as smaller inland towns, such as Dolgellau and Llandudno, tucked away in the valleys. The closest to a “prince” that Gwynedd has is the ancient [[Boggans|boggan]] Gwilym Pugh, last in the line of commoner seneschals of Cymru’s last high king. He desperately clings to life and his fae seeming as he waits for a successor. Sadly, his choice, his daughter Susan, is Kinain rather than [[Kithain]].

## Principality of Powys
Now lost to [[Banality]], the Principality of Powys occupies central Cymru, from Cardigan Bay in the west to the [[Kingdom of Albion]] in the east. The [[03 - A World of Darkness/Places of Glamour/Trods|trod]] called Gwyddno’s Track, said to lead at one time to all the cantrevs (or provinces) in Cymru as well as to [[Hibernia]], now lies lost somewhere within Powys. A place of few towns, Powys contains a few spectacular spas and resorts. It also has the lowest human population in Wales and no known fae. At one time, a ghille dhu named Vaughn Davies watched over the realm from a distance, afraid to interact with the outside world and lose himself to [[Banality]]. Presently, none know if he has a successor.

## Principality of Dyfed
Known as The Land of Seas and Shores, the Principality of Dyfed occupies a peninsula, with Cardigan Bay, the Bristol Channel, and St. George’s Channel surrounding it on three sides. Prince Dylan ap Gwynedd rules Dyfed, though he tends to avoid making decisions. He believes himself cursed to ruin the land of Cymru should he attempt to rule as High King, a conviction that has tainted his self-confidence in his own ability to rule at all. Prince Dylan rules from his manor home, Dinas Cleddau, only a few hundred feet from the sea. Outwardly a whitewashed cottage, the inside combines the modernity of a fine manor with the prince’s passion for sea life, as befits his mortal position as a marine biologist.

## Principality of Glamorgan
The Land of Black Rowan, the lost Principality of Glamorgan consists of south central Cymru. Once one of the most pristine spots in Cymru, the land now holds many noteworthy (in mortal terms) cities: Cardiff, Newport, Caerphilly, Pontypridd, and Rhondda. The land is ruled by Lloyd Morgenstern, a former [[Nockers|nocker]] hero who, long ago, suffered a curse that transformed him into one of the [[Dauntain]] in all his successive lives. Now he dedicates himself to the eradication of [[Glamour]] in his bailiwick.

## Principality of Gwent
Gwent, the Borderland, lies south of the Principality of Powys and northeast of the Principality of Glamorgan. Like Clwyd and Powys, it shares a border with the [[Kingdom of Albion]]. Gwent includes the towns of Monmouth, Usk, Chepstow, and Abergavenny. Known for its rich farmland, the region also contains important historical locations, among them the Roman excavations at Caerleon, and Tintern Abbey, immortalized by Wordsworth’s poem. The [[Satyrs|satyr]] [[01 Chimera|grump]] and former actor Nestor Evans and his [[Pooka|pooka]] friend Derwyn ap Allyn have been the most influential [[Changeling|changelings]] in the realm. Both are on the verge of losing their fae seemings forever, and now search for worthy successors.