The Shining Host long ago divided itself into great houses, who in turn represent different elements and interests of the Seelie and Unseelie Courts. Though the sidhe returned to a world that had all but abandoned such feudal concepts, the fact remains that the dreams of monarchy and idealized nobility remain, and none can deny that the Dreaming itself backed their claims. Like it or not, the houses rule the political landscape of the Kithain, and so understanding them is critical for any changeling who hopes to make an impact on fae society.

Each noble house is a culture unto itself, with rites and traditions going back centuries. Those who seek to buck the established order thus face stiff opposition, though mavericks feel the reward of changing house practices can be worth the risk. Internal house politics are the epitome of ruthless courtesy, as it is seen as poor form to openly go against one's "relatives," and yet there is often little alternative for those who wish to climb the ladder. Given that Arcadian sidhe currently control a large part of the nobility, it is perhaps unsurprising that bias against titled commoners and even Autumn sidhe runs deep in all but the most unorthodox houses.

Of course, internal struggles are set against the backdrop of politics between houses, and since open warfare is frowned upon among the nobility, that only makes the intrigues and backstabbing even more ruthless. Nor is all politicking across the court divide, though that certainly is a big arena; conflicts between houses of the same court are common as different values and philosophies collide. Add personal elements like unlikely friendships or old grudges into the mix, and it all makes for an ever-shifting array of alliances, betrayals, favors, gossip, duels, parties, and conspiracies that can raise a savvy noble to the heights of power — or tear her down just as fast.

What follows is a brief overview of each of the great houses of Kithain society, providing a look at their history, their role in the political landscape, how they came to return to the Autumn world, and some of the common habits and traits of their members. The house's Boon and Flaw, special traits acquired by all nobles of the house, are also detailed, and should be carefully noted by players of noble characters. Lastly, a gallery of famous members showcases noteworthy political players and rising stars, as well as provides the Storyteller with potential supporting characters to use when dealing with that house.

It is also worth noting that while rank terms have been standardized for simplicity's sake, nobles often receive alternatives or additions to the standard titles, ones that better reflect a noble's specific duties as well as a house's unique culture and perspective. A Gwydion investigator might receive the formal title of Lord Inquisitor, rather than simply "Baron," for example, while a ruthless Balor leader may hold the rank of "Lieutenant General" instead of "Countess." At formal events or in settings where this might cause confusion, the standard title is used first, followed by the house-specific one: "May I present Lord Bayard Tyrael, Storm-Champion of House Eiluned."
