## Building A Setting

Characters don’t exist in a vacuum, and the choice of a setting has a major impact on a lot of the chronicle’s most basic elements. A game set in a small town in middle America during the early 1960s is going to be very different from a game set in the punk subculture of modern London, for example, and both are substantially different from a game set in a freehold overlooking a remote mountain town in Alaska.

Some Storytellers may wish to handle the setting process entirely on their own, so that they can build it to suit their chronicle’s needs precisely, but unless this is truly necessary it’s a good idea to work with the players to help design a setting together. Doing so removes some of the burden of a complicated process from resting entirely on the Storyteller, for one thing, and for another having a hand in designing the setting makes the players immediately invested, in much the same way as character-driven story design, discussed previously.

One of the easiest ways to approach setting creation is to start off with a very basic notion of where the game might take place, such as “a city” or “somewhere in the wilderness.” The Storyteller may wish to control this aspect, such as specifying a particular city or certain area of wilderness if she wants to steer things in a certain direction, or she can leave it up to the players. For example, she may feel that a city is the best place for the story she has in mind, but not be too particular about which city, leaving that up to the players with room for her to customize around whatever metropolis they decide upon.

If all of the players are not familiar with the chosen setting, it’s a good idea to get everyone up to speed with some basics — pictures, maps, a little bit of a history lesson, whatever might help them visualize where the game will be taking place. If the setting is mostly or entirely fictional, it’s best to make sure everyone understands what it’s like and has a feel for the place. It doesn’t have to involve creating hours of detailed background, just enough detail to get a sense of what the setting is like to start is fine. Drawing real-world comparisons helps, too, whether it means showing the skyline of one city, some famous landmarks from another, or otherwise grounding it at least somewhat in reality.

Soliciting suggestions from the players for interesting locations is another good way for a Storyteller to involve them during this process. Once the basic setting has been decided upon and the players have a rough idea of what it’s like, go around the table and have everyone pitch in an idea for a place that might turn up during play. It can be something personal, like a character’s house or school, or it can be something broader, like a local landmark or watering hole. It can even be something that the characters aren’t aware of yet, but that the player thinks might be cool to explore, like a mysterious house at the edge of town or a strange grove in the forest. This sort of exercise can yield a rich bounty of plot hooks and character connections, not to mention help fill out the setting’s map right from the start.

Another element of setting design is the cast of supporting characters that the players’ characters will encounter during the story. While the Storyteller may have a few in mind already, going around the table and having players suggest supporting characters in the same style as interesting locations can be a quick and effective way to help populate the setting with a diverse and compelling cast. Not to mention providing a number of ready-made personalities that the Storyteller can fall back on as needed.

Last but not least, it’s definitely worth talking about whether the players are the only motley in town, or merely a segment of a larger fae population. Being the only changelings in the area makes for a very intimate game, but can also limit certain setting elements like Kithain politics and antagonists, as well as the ability to use supporting characters to illustrate elements of Changeling like Bedlam or the Undoing. If the players are the only changelings in town, it’s also worth asking if they really know what they are, or if they have just been struggling to put it together on their own. It may also be useful to determine if there are any local Prodigals the characters are aware of, whether they’re ghosts the sluagh are familiar with or still stranger creatures in the night.

> [!example] Fictionalized Settings
> A fictionalized setting is based on a real place (or places), but at the same time also a distinct fictional entity, such as the hybrid city of San Fransokyo in the film Big Hero 6. The main advantage of such a setting is that it allows for both the inclusion of familiar real world elements as well as extensive fictional customization. The Storyteller can draw on an actual place for inspiration and keep any parts of that place that she likes – maps, landmarks, historical events, general ambiance — while at the same time also leaving her free to add, remove, or alter anything she likes to suit her story. The result is a place that’s at once very familiar, and yet at the same time utterly alien…a perfect way to represent the World of Darkness.
>
> Example: Pete is running a game for a group of friends, and since the group lives near Philadelphia, he decides it would be convenient to use it as a setting since they’re all familiar with it. However, he also wants to make it his own, as well as change some parts of it to suit his story better. He decides to create a fictionalized version of Philadelphia, which he calls Liberty City. Most of the city’s history is the same, from its role in the Revolutionary War up to the present day, but he decides to add to the skyline a bit, putting up several huge corporate headquarters and letting the players know the city is experiencing a high-tech boom that has revitalized downtown.
>
> Thinking on it a little more, he also tells the player the city is host to a number of large cemeteries full of ornate old mausoleums, in the style of New Orleans. When the players ask why, he simply smiles and tells them they’ll find out soon enough. All of a sudden a place they knew well got a whole lot more ominous and sinister, which is exactly what he had in mind.
