Ancient stories recount that fae were created from the dreams of the world. Those long-ago dreams have shifted and changed with the influence of humanity's imagination to create the kiths of fae that exist the world over. A changeling comes out of his [[Chrysalis]] knowing that he belongs to one of those kiths, and bearing the hallmark physical traits of his people. As a changeling ages, his mortal body takes on more of the physical traits that mark him as a member of his kith, until mortal death drives the fae spirit into the cycle of reincarnation to begin things all over again.

There are 12 kiths prevalent across [[Concordia]] (13 if one counts the two distinctly different kinds of [[Sidhe]] that now exist in the mortal world). They are:

- [[Boggans]]: Practical and hardworking, boggans are the keepers of households and industrious homemakers. Boggans can't help but get involved in the business of others, and for that reason always seem to know what's going on. Trusted with keeping the hearths of many freeholds and nobleman's keeps, boggans are the bedrock of a stable fae court.
- [[Clurichauns]]: Fun-loving and charismatic, these [[Kithain]] are the origin of the stories of leprechauns. They love life and revelry, as well as collecting objects. Clurichauns are prone to bouts of depression or rage, unleashing their fantastic tempers and tearing through anyone in their way.
- [[Eshu]]: The ultimate wanderers, eshu are consummate storytellers and explorers. Originating in Africa, these [[Kithain]] were once rulers in their own lands and now can be found across the globe. Known for arriving just where and when they need to, eshu are quick-witted bargainers and explorers, and perfect companions for any adventure.
- [[Nockers]]: These foul-mouthed curmudgeons might be small and strange to look at, but their need to craft and build makes them the ingenious inventors of changeling society. Nockers often prefer their own company (provided they're allowed to create), and fall easily into profanity-laced frustration when finding imperfections within their own designs.
- [[Piskies]]: Piskies are an innocent, wide-eyed kith, made up of natural wanderers that seek the beautiful and awe-inspiring beauty of the world. Useful messengers and guides, these industrious and friendly changelings can't resist taking something they fancy, even if it doesn't belong to them.
- [[Pooka]]: Pranksters at best and terrors at worst, these changelings each share an affinity with a particular animal and adore practical jokes. These rogues are known for never being able to tell the whole truth, and often act as the not-so-innocent jesters who can get away with nearly anything.
- [[Redcaps]]: These hideous changelings are monstrous eating machines, terrifying to behold and full of bad attitudes and violence. Redcaps can ingest nearly anything and live for the chance to stir up trouble and buck authority, making them an often friendless and unwelcome addition to changeling society.
- [[Satyrs]]: Satyrs are the spirit of pleasure and passion given form. Sensualists of the highest order, these goat-legged [[Kithain]] are known for their boundless energy as well as their musical talent. Though they are known for their hedonistic ways, satyrs also serve as fierce warriors, lovers, and wise councilors.
- [[Selkies]]: These skinchanging [[Kithain]] straddle the worlds of land and sea, capable of slipping on a seal skin to swim the oceans, or taking off their skins to walk on land. Playful but also cautious, these attractive fae must keep their sealskin pelts close by even when in mortal form, or risk having them stolen and destroyed.
- [[Sidhe]] (Arcadian): The noble and beautiful rulers of faeriekind, the sidhe are the otherworldly beautiful leaders of the classic faerie lords. These sidhe left for [[Arcadia]] during the [[Shattering]], only to return to assume their rulership once more. Unlike the commoners they seek to rule, Arcadian sidhe never took up the [[Changeling Way]] and instead steal the bodies of mortals to walk in the Autumn world.
- [[Sidhe]] (Autumn): Unlike their Arcadian counterparts, Autumn sidhe consist of all the sidhe who chose to stay and bond themselves to mortal bodies through the [[Changeling Way]] either during the [[Shattering]] or later during the [[Resurgence]] and [[Evanescence]]. These sidhe embody the boundless beauty and grace of their Arcadian cousins coupled with the complex beauty of mankind. Natural leaders, Autumn sidhe believe they have earned their right to rule.
- [[Sluagh]]: These dark and secretive fae are the best at collecting information and guarding secrets. Sly and withdrawn, sluagh are only able to speak at a whisper, and loathe loud noises and losing their well-protected knowledge.
- [[Trolls]]: These powerful giants embody the loyalty, honor, and strength of the fae. Staunch defenders and guardians, trolls prize honor above all. Once they've given their word, they will not break it on penalty of sickness and even death.

These are by no means the only kiths that exist in the world, as some [[Kithain]] are rare or local only to certain regions or parts of the world. Yet these 13 groups make up the majority of [[Kithain]] society, and the court system that makes up its structure.
