“The joy of life comes from our encounters with new experiences, and hence there is no greater joy than to have an endlessly changing horizon, for each day to have a new and different sun.”
—Christopher McCandless

For at least as long as humans have dreamed, there have been faeries in the world, and some believe that they, or something of their kind, existed long before. Faeries and creatures of the dreaming exist in every corner of the earth. Many are familiar faces in western stories and faerie tales. The capricious pooka, the malevolent redcap, the sensual satyr, and the lofty sidhe are all well known. Yet many other creatures of the Dreaming exist that are hidden or foreign to the Kithain. These “outsiders,” whose ways and customs are not well known, are called the Gallain. Once a term for anything of the Dreaming that is unknown or unknowable, it has come to stand for those fae who are less known, whether by choice or chance, to the Kithain. Those who dwell in far-off lands, or that are hidden in secret or inaccessible places.

The European changelings, the Kithain, place themselves at the center of the faerie universe, but truth be told, they are only a fraction of all of the fae. Many varieties of Gallain have sprung from the dreams of non-Europeans. Some, such as the Nunnehi of the Americas, the Menehune of Hawai’i and the Hsien of the Far East are at least known to the Kithain, but other, more secretive, creatures of dream remain hidden in the far-off reaches of the world.

The Kithain have relations with some of these fae, and over the centuries alliances have been made and treaties broken. Often the fortunes of these relations mirror that of the human world. As technology and globalization make the world smaller, the Kithain find themselves in contact with the Gallain far more often. Different understandings of the world and the Dreaming often exacerbate difficulties of understanding something so much like oneself, and yet so alien.

Yet, as humans continue to expand into the world around them, mingling with other cultures and other lands, continual contact with the Gallain is inevitable. And so, the Kithain must learn to live in this world, filled with beings who had once been little more than far away and distant stories.