With the Sundering came the separation of the Autumn world and the Dreaming, and the birth of changelings, but for every action, there is an equal and opposite occurrence. While some fae chose to remain in the Autumn world and cloak themselves in mortal flesh to hold off the forces of Banality, others were closed off in the Dreaming and remained there, among Glamour aplenty and the ever-changing landscapes and ideas. Among those removed from all mortal realms are the Dark-kin, commonly referred to as Denizens. As a result of the conflict between the Fomorians and the Tuatha de Danaan, these Denizens were barred from the waking world. The Tuatha enacted the Silver Ban and forbade them from walking the Silver Path. As pockets of dark Glamour began to leak back into the Autumn World, however, they provided ways for the Denizens to once again walk among mortals.

Direct descendants of the Fomorians and the Tuatha de Danaan, these beings are nigh immortal; while they do not truly live forever, they can have lifespans that stretch for hundreds of years before reincarnating into a new form. Though these creatures may appear humanoid, they have very little in common with mortals or even changelings. Their minds and motivations are inscrutable even to those touched by fae heritage. Though they are born of mortal concepts, they know very little about the mortal realms. To some, the Autumn world is a source of endless mystery, while others care very little for the Banal world outside the Dreaming.

Due to their unique heritage, Denizens are not bound by the same rules as other fae. They have no such ruling forces as seemings and courts and care little for the way they divide the personalities of such lesser beings in the mortal realm. Much as changelings have kiths, Denizens also belong to general families known as adhene, which dictate their powers and proclivities.

Instead of seemings and courts determining the actions and attitude of a Denizen, she follows instead a three-way division of influence. These metaphysical divisions, called Ariá, make up the layers of a Denizen's personality, and function in a tiered system. The primary Ariá is most often in control and has the strongest influence on a Dark-kin, and the secondary and tertiary Ariá have progressively less hold on her personality. Much like seemings, the dominant Ariá can change as a Denizen encounters new situations. However, while changelings have no "default" seeming, a Denizen always has an Ariá she favors over the others. Even if something occurs to shift which Ariá is currently ruling, in time, her favored Ariá always reasserts itself.

Without regard for the Seelie and Unseelie Courts, the concepts of good and evil are not lost on Denizens, but they can be a good deal muddier. Many changelings would write them off as simply Unseelie as a whole and be done with it, but such classification denies a large fraction with more traditionally Seelie tendencies. A great many Denizens have no issue blending the ideals of the Courts; aonides may do awful, "Unseelie" things in the pursuit of a wholly consuming love; fir-bholg are usually seen as wise and honor-bound beings, traits that are typically associated with the Seelie Court, and yet they regain Glamour through the sacrifice of others, without question or care. While they do not adhere to one Court or another, nothing stops a Denizen from allying herself with members of either Court. Though many Dark-kin do have at least some Unseelie tendencies or associations, they have little love or trust for the Shadow Court and its members.

Many adhenes of the Denizens have a land or culture where they are believed to have originated, areas where the minds of humans were especially focused on the ideas that make them unique. The acheri are widely accepted as Indian lore. Fir-bholg are considered native to Ireland, while the moiræ are most famous as the Greco-Roman Oracles. This does not mean they exist or existed only in these places in the Autumn world, merely that the dreams and ideas that shaped them were focused originally in those cultures. They may be most populous in those areas, but Denizens can and do exist outside of their home cultures. They are less attracted to customs and location as they are to specific Dreamers, and have little regard for geographical borders or nationalities. Due to this propensity to gravitate toward individuals instead of pockets of society, many adhenes have been given multiple names by varying human cultures. The Denizens that make up their adhene accept these local terms, but amongst other fae or changelings are referred to by their marginally more neutral names.

Rumors abound concerning the persistence of Denizens after the Sundering. With so many locked away in the Dreaming and out of contact with the mortals, would they not fade away into legend? The answer to this that many have found is a breed of Denizen known as the Evanescent. These Denizens either went into hiding outside the Dreaming or were locked out as trods and pathways slammed shut. During the last great conflict between the Fomorian and Tuatha de Danaan, eruptions of dark Glamour brought some Denizens through again. Among these Evanescent were aonides, keremet, and moiræ.

## Belief and Governance

Despite their disregard for humanity itself, the minds of the Dark-kin work in very similar ways, and their ideas mirror those found in the Autumn world. Due to the nature of the Dreaming, concepts that are suppressed or relegated to the realm of fantasy are the most common themes found among Denizens. Though a number of wildly differing ideas exist among the various adhene, the Dreaming is more than large enough for groups with different ruling systems to comfortably occupy their own spaces.

In the fractured, fluid world of the Dreaming, each family of Denizens has a place they call home. These areas reflect the values of each adhene and can vary greatly. Some Denizens still adhere to the trappings and stations of feudal society, while others have adopted more contemporary governing styles. Strange adaptations of communism, democracy, and even theocracy exist in isolated pockets around the expansive landscape of the Dreaming. In other places, Denizens prefer tribal societies, and if even that is too restrictive, anarchy reigns. While some of these more comparable ideas might exist closer together or share some common areas, more disparate ideas will either exist entirely on their own or aggravate conflicting groups that happen to be nearby.

Of course, government is hardly the only system that beings, fae or mortal, use to guide their lives. When it comes to spirituality, religion, or higher powers, Denizens have similarly varied views as they do about society. Some choose monotheistic faiths or introspective concepts, but a majority lean toward pagan and polytheistic beliefs. Many worship vast pantheons comprising the most powerful beings in the Dreaming; among them are legendary chimera, some of the Fomorians, and even some of the Tuatha de Danaan.

Regardless of what societal or belief systems Denizens follow, they are rarely cavalier in their attitudes toward them. The fervor with which some Denizens follow their leaders or deities is beyond even the devotion of the most radical humans, and can become a driving force in their long lives. This is especially true for those who live by the Apolliae, and they follow their chosen masters with such zeal that even fanatics pale in comparison. However, they are not the only Ariá that can devote themselves wholly to worship or following; Araminae and Dioniae follow with equal zeal, especially if they can find a purpose that appeals to their desires, be they baser or more cerebral in nature.

## Denizens and the Autumn World

Locked in the Dreaming and without the direct influence of Banality, Denizens were never forced to undergo the Changeling Way ritual. They have little love for those that have, regarding such lesser beings as changelings with disdain. More creatures of spirit, they do share the same Attributes — Strength, Intelligence, Appearance, etc. — but have no natural conduit to the mortal realm. Despite this, Denizens most often mimic human forms, due in large part to their conception by human minds, and do have tangible bodies in the Dreaming.

Denizens that choose to enter the Autumn world can do so in one of two ways: manifesting a physical form or temporarily possessing a Dreamer. While possession offers some protection from Banality, even merely sharing a mortal form is uncomfortable to most Denizens and abhorrent to others. Most notably, the fir-bholg and fuath cannot stand being confined in mortal flesh. This possession lasts only as long as the Denizen wishes, and she typically departs long before she risks a changeling's fate of coming Undone.

Manifesting a physical form of their own is more comfortable for all Denizens, but with no protection from Banality; those that do so burn bright and fast before they are forced to return to the Dreaming or risk death. Manifesting in this way costs the Denizen a point of Glamour a day, and in this form a Denizen cannot passively regain their Glamour. Balefires and dross are thus of little consequence, and only through directly interacting with Dreamers is a Denizen's Glamour reinvigorated. A Denizen that falls to Banality in this form takes one health level of lethal damage a day (chimerical and real) until she returns to the Dreaming, where she recovers at the same rate.

## Denizen Creation

Dark-kin character creation is similar to that of Kithain characters. They have the same Attributes, Abilities, and Backgrounds. They use the same Arts and Realms. Denizens do not have Banality as a trait (they are protected from Banality by their methods of entering the Autumn world).

Where a Denizen differs most, in terms of game Traits, from her Kithain counterparts is in her seemings and Legacies. Consult Chapter Three: Character Creation & Traits for more information about character creation.

## Ariá

Denizens are bound by the Ariá, a trio of behaviors and forms that present in unique ways for each adhene. These are complex and subtle states, something completely alien and unknowable to changelings. They relate more deeply to the opinions and emotional state of the Denizen, and her relationship with the Dreaming itself. Ariá stand less as opposing philosophies, like the Seelie and Unseelie Courts, and are more of a personal choice of the Denizen.

Much like the way changelings favor one court over the other, one Ariá is always the most dominant in a Denizen. The remaining Ariá play small roles in a Dark-kin's life, but as circumstances change, may for a time become the ruling aspect of her personality. Most commonly, a change in Ariá occurs after a particularly intense emotional event, be it a tragedy, an epiphany of some sort, or some kind of spiritual awakening. Denizens suffer little backlash to changing Ariá — it carries almost none of the weight of changing court or seeming, and changes the way the Denizen reacts to the world around her instead of the way the world reacts to her. Without repercussions, Denizens are much more fluid and mercurial in the way they see and react to their environment. Without the lens of humanity, it is easier for these beings to remain in flux. In a way, it reflects the world they are used to, as the Dreaming itself is ultimately unknowable, and often changes to reflect common dreams.

Depending on a Denizen's adhene, her appearance may change drastically or not at all as her Ariá does. For example, an aonide changes very little, if at all, as she shifts; a moiræ, representing the Three Fates in the form of maiden, mother, and crone, takes on those forms as she shifts.

As the Ariá are more than simple changes on the surface of a Denizen's life, the three facets of her personality are all paired with a Legacy, much like the way a changeling's Legacies are tied to the courts. The dominant Ariá and its associated Legacy are the truest lens through which a Denizen sees the world. The secondary Ariá is fairly close to the surface, and is capable of influencing a Denizen's behavior; it will not override the primary Ariá, but can, in theory, coerce it. A denizen trusts her secondary Ariá, even if she does not prefer it. The tertiary Ariá is often little more than a whisper in the back of the Denizen's mind. It is a voice that has little to no bearing or influence on the Denizen, and if it can be heard is often dismissed. The tertiary Ariá is the most challenging lens for a Denizen to reflect on, and on the rare occasion that it manages to assert dominance, it makes a drastic change in her life and her personality.

Even though Denizens are more mercurial than changelings, mortals, and even Thallain, they most commonly switch between their primary and secondary Ariá. These two voices, and their associated Legacies, are the strongest aspects of her personality. The tertiary faces a much harder time in gaining dominance, as the way it interprets the world is somewhat alien. Should it come to the surface, a marked change comes over the Denizen in question. Despite the rarity of this occurrence, the tertiary Ariá does play an important role in other matters; when delving into the dreams of others, the tertiary Ariá "wakes up" and becomes more active.

The Seelie and Unseelie Legacies can be found on pp. 156–160, and the Nightmare Legacies on pp. 370–371. The Storyteller should choose one to represent each of the Denizen's Ariás.

Below is a description of each of the three Ariá.

## The Dioniae

The most basic instincts are the Dioniae's prime concern. Dark-kin ruled by this Ariá are often aggressive and focused only on short-term goals; hunting for food, a mate, or a source of Glamour are their priorities. They have little regard for the consequences of the short-sighted actions they will take to accomplish these goals and attain their prizes. Rarely do they show concern for others around them, and if they do it is only after they have made sure they have glutted themselves on whatever it is they were seeking.

While these survival instincts are not a bad thing in and of themselves, if left unchecked they can quickly become destructive. Denizens ruled by the Dioniae show little regard for such common conventions as etiquette, and have no issue voicing concerns or thoughts that would shock and appall even questionably polite company. In the same vein, they have no trouble acting upon their basest desires, even when most would deem the time, place, or both inappropriate.

**Beginning Glamour:** 4

**Beginning Willpower:** 2

## The Araminae

Walking the line between indulgences is the Araminae. The most pragmatic and sensible of the Ariá, Denizens ruled by this mindset are the most rational of the Dark-kin. It offers a more balanced perspective to the base desires of the Dioniae and the cerebral ideals of the Apolliae. Though still influenced by either of these urges, Araminae Denizens have the most level heads when going about achieving their goals.

Applying order to the chaos of the Dark-kin's mind brings them the closest to a human condition, and those that walk this path do not seem entirely different from humanity on the surface. However, very close are the desires of the ultimately inhuman Denizen in question. The Araminae does not so much remove them from their urges as mask them particularly well behind careful thought and uncharacteristic patience. Acting more as a guiding force than anything else, the Araminae is ultimately as self-interested as the Dioniae or Apolliae; it is simply more willing to take a roundabout route.

**Beginning Glamour:** 3

**Beginning Willpower:** 3

## The Apolliae

While the Dioniae is concerned with satisfying basic desires, the Apolliae is focused on fulfilling a higher purpose. Attempting to create order in chaos, those ruled by this Ariá develop a strict moral code, and follow it to the letter — even if it goes against her best interest. These Denizens believe they have a calling they must answer, and favor indulging the soul over the body. This instinct to find a purpose is a driving force in their lives, and guides every decision the Denizen makes.

While the pursuit of a "higher self" is usually a noble one, what exactly meets that goal is highly dependent on the one setting it. While functioning in a limited capacity as a sense of conscience, the Apolliae represents more a strict set of rules the Dark-kin will follow. Nothing prevents recreational violence or ritualistic arson from being among those rules; ethics are highly personal things, and any number of lenses can make even the most despicable things palatable. For these Dark-kin, it's simply a matter of perspective and justification, and both are provided by their unwavering, albeit warped, moral compasses.

**Beginning Glamour:** 2

**Beginning Willpower:** 4
