In recent years, new and strange chimera have been sighted
in the Dreaming. Kithain folklorists hotly debate over the origin of these bizarre creatures. Most believe that the rise of pop
culture, enthusiastically consumed by Dreamers and changelings
alike, is responsible for sightings of chimera that might have
come straight from creepy websites or horror movies.

Urban legends are almost as diverse as nocnitsa, and can be
as unpredictable as nervosa. They may manifest as alligators in
the sewers, poltergeists tormenting family homes, or anything in
between. Their relatively recent history makes them dangerous:
Nobles removed from mortality often have little understanding
of how to deal with slendermen and murderous children's toys,
and excitable commoners more versed in the world often jump
into encounters without truly understanding that their enemy
is far more than a scary story.

## Mannequins

Mannequins are ubiquitous in the world, such a common
sight that they are paid little direct attention. Clothing shops
line dress forms up in their windows, with smooth, faceless
bodies displaying fashions to all passersby. China dolls sit on
shelves in high-end toy stores, watching children and their
parents with blank, glass eyes. Statues fill parks and cemeteries, frozen in place. Scarecrows hang on poles, shifting in the
wind. Stuffed animals pile on beds and floors of nurseries and
playrooms, harmless and adorable.

None of them move until no one is looking. By then, it's
too late.

Mannequins are rarely more than semi-sentient, following
some unfathomable instinct to hunt and attacking with whatever weapons are nearby. Though they appear to want to kill,
such occurrences are rare. Instead, they seem to feed on the
Glamour generated by the waves of terror they cause in their
victims. Most encounters with mannequins leave the victim
with a phobia of dolls, bears, scarecrows or clowns.

**Attributes:** Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 2, Perception 3,
Intelligence 2, Wits 3

**Abilities:** Alertness 2, Brawl 2, Melee 2, Kenning 1, Empathy 2

**Health Levels:** OK, OK, –1, –1, –2, –5, Incapacitated

**Redes:** Fear, Steal Glamour

**Glamour:** 5

**Willpower:** 3

**Armor:** 0 (2 soak dice, total)

**Attacks:** Punch/3B, Improvised Weapon/+1L

## Outsiders

Of all the nightmare chimera haunting the Dreaming,
Outsiders are simultaneously the easiest to understand and the
most frightening to encounter. Immensely powerful, they are
birthed from and fed by the uneasy dreams of horror movie buffs,
campfire storytellers, and Kithain with overactive imaginations.

Outsiders can manifest in any humanoid form, but typically
fall into one of five specific archetypes. Implacable Monsters
are terrifying, single-minded machines of death, difficult to
escape and nearly impossible to kill. Smiling Men rarely appear
as anything more than sinister shadows, showing only a grin
and a flash of claws. Shrieks are pale figures, with distended
features and inhuman wails, lunging at their victims from
shattered mirrors and dark corners. Unbound Shadows hide
in the shades cast by their victims, unseen and impossible to
escape. Harbingers are the rarest of Outsiders as well as the
most benign, strange figures dressed in black who never attack
but appear somewhere in the background shortly before major
catastrophe strikes.

**Attributes:** Strength 5, Dexterity 6, Stamina 7, Perception 6,
Intelligence 6, Wits 6

**Abilities:** Alertness 3, Athletics 3, Brawl 3, Intimidation 3,
Kenning 3, Melee 3, Stealth (Surprise) 4

**Health Levels:** OK, OK, OK, OK, –1, –1, –1, –1, –2, –2, –2,
–5, Incapacitated

**Redes:** Aggravated Damage, Armor (x5), Befuddle, Fear, Hide,
Weaponry (+3), Wyrd

**Glamour:** 8

**Willpower:** 6

**Armor:** 5 (12 soak dice, total)

**Attacks:** Punch/6B, Nightmare Weapon/9A
