Following the second World War and the horrors inflicted on humanity, many mortals felt as if the future died on the battlefields. Though there would be a future, it took years before humanity dared to dream again. Following the postwar baby boom, dreams of rebirth and possibilities surged through the Autumn world. Television entered living rooms, allowing humanity to explore worlds beyond imagination. Europe continued to rebuild its ruined cities, and Japan regained independence after American occupation. While the 1950s had its downsides, with the beginning Cold War and fear of communism, or the Soviet Union detonating a hydrogen bomb, the decade laid groundwork for grander visions. Following the Soviet Union's successful launch of an artificial satellite towards the end of the decade, [[Glamour]] slowly trickled from the Autumn Realm back into the [[Dreaming]], as humanity began to envision the possibilities of exploring space.

Despite the continuing wars and generational clashes of values and morals, the 1960s steadily renewed the Autumn world's connection with the [[Dreaming]]. As the space race continued to spur the two sides of the Cold War conflict, technological advancements that benefited humanity at large followed in its wake. The new generation's adherence to the ideals of being free spirits and daring to dream about a different world made it easier for [[Glamour]] to amass. [[Banality]]'s grip on mortal minds eased as the space race intensified, but it required something truly extraordinary and monumental to ignite the [[Glamour]] into an explosive crescendo. On July 20, 1969, humanity witnessed the moon landing live on television, and all of the hope, fear, and wonder of the previous decade burst forth.

Across the world, all with faerie sight witnessed ancient [[03 - A World of Darkness/Places of Glamour/Trods|trods]] manifesting on land, on sea, and in the air as the long-gone [[Sidhe]] rulers returned on majestic steeds and in chariots of light and darkness. True Dreamers emerged in all corners of the world, and [[Balefires|balefires]] burnt brighter than since before the [[Shattering]]. For a brief moment, everything in the world had a [[01 Chimera|chimerical]] quality, but centuries of amassed [[Banality]] muted it and immediately closed the gateways to [[Arcadia]].

Guided by the [[Dreaming]], or perhaps through their own pre-arrival planning, the first generation of Arcadian [[Sidhe]] forced themselves into human hosts. Mortal witnesses describe friends or family collapsing for a brief moment, then rising, confused for a short time, but brimming with confidence and an aura of regal quality. It's also true that some [[Sidhe]] souls entered the Autumn world in silence and through unseen [[03 - A World of Darkness/Places of Glamour/Trods|trods]], and those who did inhabited the bodies of newborn babies, waiting to grow up and join the ranks of nobility as, some believe, a contingency plan if something went wrong during the return. However, no matter the chosen human body, they all belonged to someone wealthy and influential, or were members of highly-valued and powerful families in society.

> [!example] Glimmers
> Despite that the gates to [[Arcadia]] closed due to the amassed [[Banality]], the [[Resurgence]] set the return of the [[Sidhe]] in motion. Whenever massive flows of [[Glamour]] occur, such as during momentous events like the fall of the Berlin wall, the overturning of apartheid in South Africa, or the election of U.S. President Barack Obama, [[03 - A World of Darkness/Places of Glamour/Trods|trods]] briefly open to dispatch more souls into the Autumn Realm.
>
> [[Kithain]] have made some attempts to predetermine where glimmers are going to appear, but so far none have successfully managed to use them to travel into the [[Dreaming]].
>
> [[Sidhe]] that return through glimmers belong to the Arcadian [[Sidhe]] (p. 106). Commoners returning must serve one of the Arcadian [[Sidhe]] noble houses (see Chapter Two).
