(El-EE-ned)

> "Today I pledge my loyalty to the Black and Silver, through my liege. I will grant my betters the respect they have earned and work to guide those younger than I to the path of understanding and wisdom. Each day I shall strive to learn more of the world and my own heart, to better enrich both Eiluned and myself. Above all, I pledge to House Eiluned myself as vassal, and I hope I may serve with honor and distinction."

**Court:** Seelie

**Nicknames:** Sorcerers, Sneaks (unflattering)
Known as the “House of Secrets” — an epithet not always intended to flatter — House Eiluned understands better than most the way of magic and sorcery. They understand that nobility and secrecy are intimately linked; few in power arrived there without skeletons in their closet, and an Eiluned understands that controlling their secrets is necessary for maintaining that power. Eiluned, founder of the house, grew up as the sickly younger sister of the powerful Ailil. The two shared a close bond, and as Eiluned’s skill in prophecy and divination developed, she cautioned her brother and the other noble sidhe to be wary of an oncoming storm, which would usher the fae into a dark time. Sadly, Ailil dismissed his sister’s words, which caused a rift between the siblings that would never be healed. Eiluned founded her house, training those who joined her in the ways of magic.

House Eiluned prepared well for the Sundering, fortifying freeholds throughout the land where they could shelter from Banality. Many of these freeholds were torn from the mortal world during the Shattering, others collapsed from the sheer weight of Banality, but some still stand, remaining among the most powerful freeholds to this day. In these freeholds, many of House Eiluned weathered the Shattering, while other members returned to Arcadia, divination giving them enough forewarning to carefully select the seneschals who would guard the land in Eiluned’s absence. Sadly, the Eiluned did not foresee how long they would be absent from the mortal world, so long that the oaths sworn by their seneschals no longer held firmly, and the Eiluned left behind were largely drawn into their Unseelie natures as a means of survival.
Eiluned played a role in deposing the commoners who had risen to power during the sidhe’s absence, and even in kingdoms where they do not rule, they often serve as advisors. Those who had turned Unseelie found it difficult to reclaim their Seelie nature, and other Eiluned chose to intentionally become Unseelie in order to achieve certain goals. Due to the secretive nature of the entire house, court alliance can be difficult for others to detect.

In the modern world, House Eiluned maintains its reputation as sorcerers, though they have also turned their great intellect and intuition to technology, finding many of the same mysteries in the world of computers as they did in the world of magic. Though many sidhe sneer at technology as being inherently banal, the Eiluned understand that as much magic lies within a keystroke or a piece of code as in a moldering text. They have a particular fascination with cloud storage, implementing their own mystical version as a way to store lore and confidential information so that other Eiluned may access it from anywhere. Some particularly passionate Eiluned become deeply involved in hacking, especially when it involves uncovering the secrets of others. House Eiluned has had a small hand in at least some incidents of exposing important figures in hate groups or exploitation organizations.
## Boon

Magic comes naturally to the members of House Eiluned. Players can roll Perception + Kenning to not only identify the Art and Realm of a cantrip or Unleashing, but also to determine the identity of the caster. They can pick the source of the magic out of a crowd or, if they are familiar with the caster, recognize the “signature” of the cantrip. House Eiluned also enjoys a –1 difficulty for all Gremayre rolls.

## Flaw

House Eiluned thirsts after mystery and intrigue, and their curiosity often leads them into dangerous situations. They’re also notorious meddlers, eager to put their fingerprints on everyone else’s business. If a member of this house comes across a locked door, password-protected system, or something else being kept hidden, they must try to discover the secret. If they choose not to investigate, the player gains one point of Nightmare.

## Exile

House Eiluned’s exile to Earth may be the darkest secret they hide. Some believe that Eiluned herself or one of her followers committed a heinous crime and accepted banishment in exchange for the truth being kept secret. Others think that House Eiluned came into possession of a cursed artifact, or that they made a pact with an order of mortal warlocks. Still others believe the pact was not with mortals, but with an exiled Unseelie High King. Whatever the truth, Eiluned’s not-inconsiderable powers have been turned towards making sure none recall the details.

## Factions & Societies

Rothman & Associates is an international law firm that assists the Kithain in dealing with matters of mortal law. The Knights of the Silver Key, a scholarly order of chivalrous knights, maintain extensive libraries of esoteric knowledge. The Knights of the Silver Web have a similar function to the Silver Key, only instead of maintaining hard copy libraries, they maintain the servers, data clouds, and other digital repositories of information. The Order of Moonfall, an order dedicated to divination, has served as advisors to kings and revolutionaries alike…all for a cost.

## Notable Members

Countess Anne, once a spirited young debutante, and now a wise (and still spirited) ruler of her own fiefdom, King Meilge of Willows, who rules his kingdom through a combination of strict rule and a fortuitously-timed blind eye, Duchess Ylenaria of Stone Coast, Sir Davis Rothman, a founding partner at Rothman & Associates, whose network of contacts spans the globe, PepperZ, whose “real world” identity remains unknown, but whose hacking skills have gathered her a wealth of private information and sensitive secrets, which she trades for favors for herself and her friends, and Countess Natalya, who hosts an annual Country Music Glamour Jamboree from her freehold near Opryland.