# Two Worlds, One Life

Once upon a time, Dreamers and the denizens of their dreams shared a single world. Among these denizens were the faeries, who ruled the world through both kindness and terror. While the fae went to war, humanity slowly turned their backs on the old ways and embraced disbelief and self-reliance. Through this, Banality, a force manifested by the new order, split the worlds into two — the Autumn world and the Dreaming. In the Dreaming all things remain possible. Ancient curses affect entire landscapes, monsters hide in withered forests, roads made of stardust allows travelers to visit vistas hidden among clouds, and ancient dragons and bygone beasts still roam the skies.

In the wake of the Black Plague, however, increasing Banality made it impossible for the Dreaming to maintain connections with the Autumn world, forcing it to close down the majority of pathways. In order to survive this onslaught on their very essence, the fae turned to an ancient ritual which locked their immortal souls in human bodies. This limited access to Glamour — the essence of the Dreaming — forced fae into a cycle of rebirth and rediscovery.

This progression continues even today, but every modern changeling believes that these are the final moments of Autumn, and the Long Winter, a period when Banality covers the world and humanity ceases to dream, is soon upon them.

## Chrysalis and the Dream Dance

Faerie souls remain dormant inside changelings until the Dreaming successfully reaches out and touches them, inspiring their true selves to emerge. Mortals can live and die without having their changeling aspect awaken, especially in the modern, Banal age. Those changelings fortunate enough to awaken find their surroundings gradually changing. Suddenly it’s possible to pierce the dampening cover of Banality and spot the chimerical qualities hidden in the world around them. It may be something as simple as seeing something others won’t perceive, or hearing the conversation of chimerical creatures but being unable to deduce the source of the voices. Unfortunately, many of the signs of impending awakening as a changeling are also signs of various mental illnesses, and in years past, these signs were viewed as supernatural interference or demonic possession.

For centuries, then, incipient changelings have found it wise to conceal their experiences.

Eventually, the visions and odd experiences all climax in a burst of Glamour, as memories of past lives return and the faerie spirit emerges from its slumber. This moment of the Chrysalis (the awakening process), is known as the Dream Dance. For a brief moment the changeling achieves perfect clarity of her past before it fades away, leaving the newly awakened ready to rediscover her true self and accept a place in, or outside, faerie society and the two courts. Other Kithain can sense a nascent changeling in the midst of the Dream Dance from miles away, and tradition demands that they stop what they are doing and help the new fae through the process.

> [!example] The Arcadian Dream
>
> According to Kithain memories, Arcadia is the homeland of all things faerie, where Banality and mortal bodies are but horrifying nightmares to scare childlings. All changelings have at least a few memories from having lived there during the previous ages, but no changeling knows how much of this remembrance is real and how much is wishful thinking or fancy. In the end, though, it doesn’t much matter — what is “real,” when discussing dreams? Besides, these memories of Arcadia serve as hope for the Kithain, hope that the Long Winter can be averted, or at least endured, and that the gates to their homeland will open once again.